update description of privatecacert template function (#3410)
replicatedhq/replicated-docs: docs/reference/template-functions-static-context.md

func PrivateCACert() string
```

> PrivateCACert returns the name of a ConfigMap containing any private CA certificates issued by TLS proxies that intercept outbound traffic in an end customer's environment.

Reviewer: This isnt necessarily true. It really contains what it says in your bullets below, the file provided by the end user in kots installs or the host ca trust store in EC installs.

When the ConfigMap returned by PrivateCACert is mounted, your application containers can then trust the private CA certificates issued by TLS proxies. This allows your application to make outbound internet connections in customer environments without getting TLS errors.

> For Replicated Embedded Cluster installations on VMs or bare metal servers, you must manually mount the ConfigMap returned by the PrivateCACert template function to ensure that your application trusts the private TLS certificates. Some examples of how to mount the ConfigMap include:

Author: >For Replicated Embedded Cluster installations on VMs or bare metal servers, you must manually mount the ConfigMap returned by the PrivateCACert template function to ensure that your application trusts the private TLS certificates.

This is my own interpretation after reading the current docs on this template function and also reading through the support issue you had sent me https://github.com/replicated-collab/carto-replicated/issues/67. It _seemed_ like it got mounted automatically for kots existing cluster, but that you'd need to manually mount it for embedded cluster. not really sure if that's true

> * Set the `NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS` environment variable to append the CAs from the ConfigMap to any existing CAs in the container

Reviewer: This is for nodejs only

> * Mount the CAs at `/certs` and set the `SSL_CERT_DIR` environment variable to `/certs`

Author: >* Set the `NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS` environment variable to append the CAs from the ConfigMap to any existing CAs in the container
>* Mount the CAs at `/certs` and set the `SSL_CERT_DIR` environment variable to `/certs`

I wasn't sure how useful these examples were and/or if this is something we'd want to go into greater detail on. Do you think they are good to mention? Anything you'd add? We could also do a follow up story to expand if you think it requires more in-depth docs

Reviewer: The issue carto ran into is that they wanted to trust the default certs as well as the ones set by the end user for kots existing installs. Setting `SSL_CERT_DIR` will override the defaults and when the user provides the private cert with the flag, this is the only cert that will be included in the configmap. There are probably more complex alternatives if they want to trust this in addition to the defaults but it is likely they would have to run a script when the pod starts before the application with an init container and this would likely be specific to the os in the container.

For example, if this is debian/ubuntu, they could mount the dir as a subpath under `/usr/local/share/ca-
certificates` and run the command `update-ca-certificates`.

https://superuser.com/questions/437330/how-do-you-add-a-certificate-authority-ca-to-ubuntu

> For existing cluster installations with KOTS, KOTS automatically mounts the ConfigMap as a volume in the kotsadm container at `/certs`. Each key in the ConfigMap is created as a file, with its value as file's contents. KOTS then sets the `SSL_CERT_DIR` environment variable in the kotsadm container to `/certs`. `SSL_CERT_DIR` is a common environment variable that is supported by most tools and languages to append certificates to the trust store.

Author: >For existing cluster installations with KOTS, KOTS automatically mounts the ConfigMap as a volume in the kotsadm container at `/certs`.

Pulled this paragraph from the support issue https://github.com/replicated-collab/carto-replicated/issues/67

Same as the comment above, not 100% sure that this only happens in existing cluster installations

> For existing cluster installations with KOTS, KOTS automatically mounts the ConfigMap as a volume in the kotsadm container at `/certs`. Each key in the ConfigMap is created as a file, with its value as file's contents. KOTS then sets the `SSL_CERT_DIR` environment variable in the kotsadm container to `/certs`. `SSL_CERT_DIR` is a common environment variable that is supported by most tools and languages to append certificates to the trust store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For existing cluster installations with KOTS, KOTS automatically mounts the ConfigMap as a volume in the kotsadm container at `/certs`. Each key in the ConfigMap is created as a file, with its value as file's contents. KOTS then sets the `SSL_CERT_DIR` environment variable in the kotsadm container to `/certs`. `SSL_CERT_DIR` is a common environment variable that is supported by most tools and languages to override the trust store.
```

<details>
  <summary>Where does the ConfigMap returned by the PrivateCACert template function come from?</summary>

    The ConfigMap returned by the PrivateCACert template function has a different source depending on if the user is installing with Replicated Embedded Cluster on a VM or bare metal server, or with KOTS in an existing cluster:

>     * For Embedded Cluster installations, the ConfigMap returned by PrivateCACert contains the CA trust store from the host. Embedded Cluster determines the CA trust store by first checking the `SSL_CERT_FILE` environment variable. If `SSL_CERT_FILE` is not set, Embedded Cluster then searches common certificate paths and uses the first valid certificate file found. Embedded Cluster than adds 

Reviewer: the last sentence is incomplete

Author: oops, thanks

    * For KOTS installations in existing clusters, the end user passes the ConfigMap to the `install` command using the `--private-ca-configmap` flag. For more information, see [install](/reference/kots-cli-install). 

> </details>

Author: ^ added a dropdown with more info about the source of the configmap. Ie, for existing cluster, the user provides it themselves using the --private-ca-configmap flag and for embedded cluster (I think) the configmap gets generated based on the CA trust store for the host

func PrivateCACert() string
```

PrivateCACert returns the name of a ConfigMap containing one or more private CA certificates:

* For Embedded Cluster installations, the ConfigMap returned by PrivateCACert contains the CA trust store from the host. Embedded Cluster determines the CA trust store by first checking the `SSL_CERT_FILE` environment variable. If `SSL_CERT_FILE` is not set, Embedded Cluster then searches common certificate paths and uses the first valid certificate file found.

* For KOTS installations in existing clusters, the end user creates and passes the ConfigMap to the `install` command using the `--private-ca-configmap` flag. For more information, see [install](/reference/kots-cli-install).

:::note
PrivateCACert returns the name of the ConfigMap even if the ConfigMap has no entries. If no ConfigMap exists, PrivateCACert returns the empty string.
:::

> KOTS mounts the ConfigMap returned by the PrivateCACert template function as a volume in the kotsadm container at `/certs`. Each key in the ConfigMap is created as a file, with its value as the file's contents. KOTS then sets the `SSL_CERT_DIR` environment variable in the kotsadm container to `/certs`. `SSL_CERT_DIR` is a common environment variable that is supported by most tools and languages to override the trust store in the container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KOTS mounts the ConfigMap returned by the PrivateCACert template function as a volume in the kotsadm container at `/certs`. Each key in the ConfigMap is created as a file, with its value as the file's contents. KOTS then sets the `SSL_CERT_DIR` environment variable in the kotsadm container to `/certs`. `SSL_CERT_DIR` is a common environment variable that is supported by most tools and languages to override the trust store.
```

<details>
  <summary>Can the ConfigMap returned by PrivateCACert also be mounted in application containers?</summary>

  You can use the PrivateCACert template function to mount the ConfigMap in your application container. To do so, you can use the same method that is used by KOTS described above. However, note that the `SSL_CERT_DIR` environment variable overrides the trust store in the container. This means that only the CAs included in the ConfigMap will be trusted.

  If you do _not_ want to override the trust store, you can mount the CAs that KOTS adds in a subpath in the `SSL_CERT_DIR` and then modify the containers to update the trusted CAs during deployment. For example, you could mount the CAs that KOTS adds in a subpath of the `/usr/local/share/ca-certificates` directory in the container, and run the Ubuntu `update-ca-certificates` command in an init container or entrypoint to generate a concatenated single-file list of certificates.
  
  Replicated recommends that you consider the container OS and the language(s) used by your application to determine the method that you want to use to append certificates to the trust store.

> </details>

Author: ^ moved all the info about what to do if you want to do mount the configmap in your app container to a separate dropdown. messaging tells people:
- they can do the same thing kots does
- but keep in mind that will override the container trust store
- if you don't want to override the container trust store, then consider the container OS and the languages used by your app to figure out the best way to do that (also gives the example of update-run-certificates for ubuntu)
